reformat list of katas as table with descriptions (#880)
MicrosoftDocs/quantum-docs-pr: articles/intro-to-katas.md

description: Learn about the katas (training exercises) provided with the Microsoft Quantum Development Kit (QDK)
author: natke
ms.author: nakersha 
ms.date: 06/02/2020
ms.topic: overview
uid: microsoft.quantum.overview.katas
---

# Learn quantum computing with the Quantum Katas

[The Quantum Katas](https://github.com/Microsoft/QuantumKatas/) are open-source, self-paced tutorials and programming exercises aimed at teaching the elements of quantum computing and Q# programming at the same time.

## Learning by doing

The tutorials and exercises collected in this project emphasize learning by doing: they offer programming tasks that cover certain topics which progress from very simple to quite challenging. Each task asks you to fill in some code; the first tasks might require just one line, and the later ones might require a sizable fragment of code.

> Most importantly, the katas include testing frameworks that allow you to

Reviewer: I feel that the important distinction is lost here: the testing framework doesn't allow the learner to do set up and validation, it does that automatically so that the learner just gets the feedback. Figuring out a way to test the solution is quite tricky, especially for a beginner, so it's nice to emphasize that one doesn't need to do it with the Katas.

Author: Thanks!

|[Exploring high-level properties of Grover's search algorithm](https://github.com/microsoft/QuantumKatas/tree/master/tutorials/ExploringGroversAlgorithm)|A high-level introduction to one of the most famous algorithms in quantum computing. It solves the problem of finding an input to a black box (oracle) that produces a particular output. |
|[Implementing Grover's search algorithm](https://github.com/microsoft/QuantumKatas/tree/master/GroversAlgorithm)|This kata dives deeper into Grover's search algorithm, and covers writing oracles, performing steps of the algorithm, and finally putting it all together.|
|[Solving real problems using Grover's algorithm: SAT problems](https://github.com/microsoft/QuantumKatas/tree/master/SolveSATWithGrover)|A series of exercises that uses Grover's algorithm to solve realistic problems, using [boolean satisfiability problems](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Boolean_satisfiability_problem) (SAT) as an example.  |

> |[Solving real problems using Grover's algorithm: Graph coloring problems](https://github.com/microsoft/QuantumKatas/tree/master/GraphColoring)| This kata further explores Grover's algorithm, this time to solve [constraint satisfaction problems](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Constraint_satisfaction_problem), using a graft coloring problem as an example. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|[Solving real problems using Grover's algorithm: Graph coloring problems](https://github.com/microsoft/QuantumKatas/tree/master/GraphColoring)| This kata further explores Grover's algorithm, this time to solve [constraint satisfaction problems](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Constraint_satisfaction_problem), using a graph coloring problem as an example. |
```

## What can I learn with the Quantum Katas?

> Explore the basics and fundamentals of quantum computing, dive deeper into quantum algorithms and protocols, and solve some quantum based games. We recommend you to follow this learning path in the beginning to make sure you have a solid grasp on the fundamental concepts of quantum computing. Of course, you can skip the topics you're comfortable with, such as complex arithmetic, and learn the algorithms in any order you want.

Reviewer: "Solving quantum based games" sounds a bit weird, I'd leave it off here...
```suggestion
Explore the basics and fundamentals of quantum computing or dive deeper into quantum algorithms and protocols. We recommend you to follow this learning path in the beginning to make sure you have a solid grasp on the fundamental concepts of quantum computing. Of course, you can skip the topics you're comfortable with, such as complex arithmetic, and learn the algorithms in any order you want.
```

### Introduction to quantum computing concepts

| Kata | Description |
|:-----|-------------|
|[Complex arithmetic](https://github.com/microsoft/QuantumKatas/tree/master/tutorials/ComplexArithmetic)|This tutorial explains some of the mathematical background required to work with quantum computing, such as imaginary and complex numbers.|
|[Linear algebra](https://github.com/microsoft/QuantumKatas/tree/master/tutorials/LinearAlgebra)|Linear algebra is used to represent quantum states and operations in quantum computing. This tutorial covers the basics, including matrices and vectors.|
|[The concept of a qubit](https://github.com/microsoft/QuantumKatas/tree/master/tutorials/Qubit)|Learn about qubits - one of the core concepts of quantum computing. |
|[Single-qubit quantum gates](https://github.com/microsoft/QuantumKatas/tree/master/tutorials/SingleQubitGates)|This tutorial introduces single-qubit quantum gates, which act as the building blocks of quantum algorithms and transform quantum qubit states in various ways.|

> |[Multi-qubit systems](https://github.com/microsoft/QuantumKatas/tree/master/tutorials/MultiQubitSystems)|This kata introduces multi-qubit systems, their representation in mathematical notation and in Q# code, and the concept of entanglement.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|[Multi-qubit systems](https://github.com/microsoft/QuantumKatas/tree/master/tutorials/MultiQubitSystems)|This tutorial introduces multi-qubit systems, their representation in mathematical notation and in Q# code, and the concept of entanglement.|
```

> |[Multi-qubit quantum gates](https://github.com/microsoft/QuantumKatas/tree/master/tutorials/MultiQubitGates)|This tutorial follows up the [Single-qubit quantum gates](https://github.com/microsoft/QuantumKatas/tree/master/tutorials/SingleQubitGates) kata, and focuses on applying quantum gates to multi-qubit systems.|

Reviewer: The distinction between a kata and a tutorial can be a bit hazy, the rule of thumb is: if it has theory in it and is available only as a Jupyter Notebook, it's a tutorial, if it only has exercises and is also available as a VS/VS Code project, it's a kata :-) 
```suggestion
|[Multi-qubit quantum gates](https://github.com/microsoft/QuantumKatas/tree/master/tutorials/MultiQubitGates)|This tutorial follows the [Single-qubit quantum gates](https://github.com/microsoft/QuantumKatas/tree/master/tutorials/SingleQubitGates) tutorial, and focuses on applying quantum gates to multi-qubit systems.|
```

|[Superdense coding](https://github.com/microsoft/QuantumKatas/tree/master/SuperdenseCoding)|Superdense coding is a protocol that allows transmission of two bits of classical information by sending just one qubit using previously shared quantum entanglement.  |
|[Deutsch–Jozsa algorithm](https://github.com/microsoft/QuantumKatas/tree/master/tutorials/ExploringDeutschJozsaAlgorithm)|This algorithm is famous for being one of the first examples of a quantum algorithm that is exponentially faster than any deterministic classical algorithm.|
|[Exploring high-level properties of Grover's search algorithm](https://github.com/microsoft/QuantumKatas/tree/master/tutorials/ExploringGroversAlgorithm)|A high-level introduction to one of the most famous algorithms in quantum computing. It solves the problem of finding an input to a black box (oracle) that produces a particular output. |
|[Implementing Grover's search algorithm](https://github.com/microsoft/QuantumKatas/tree/master/GroversAlgorithm)|This kata dives deeper into Grover's search algorithm, and covers writing oracles, performing steps of the algorithm, and finally putting it all together.|

> |[SAT problems](https://github.com/microsoft/QuantumKatas/tree/master/SolveSATWithGrover)|A series of exercises that uses Grover's algorithm to solve realistic problems, using [boolean satisfiability problems](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Boolean_satisfiability_problem) (SAT) as an example.  |

Reviewer: I wouldn't use shorthand here and in the next item - we're not discussing the problems as such here, we're discussing solving them using Grover's algorithm, so a shorthand is confusing. "Solving ... problems" is a better wording, used in the katas.

|[Graph coloring problems](https://github.com/microsoft/QuantumKatas/tree/master/GraphColoring)| This kata further explores Grover's algorithm, this time to solve [constraint satisfaction problems](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Constraint_satisfaction_problem), using a graft coloring problem as an example. |

### Protocols and libraries

| Kata | Description |
|:-----|-------------|
|[BB84 protocol for quantum key distribution](https://github.com/microsoft/QuantumKatas/tree/master/KeyDistribution_BB84)|Learn about and implement a quantum key distribution protocol, [BB84](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/BB84), using qubits to exchange cryptographic keys. |
|[Bit-flip error correcting code](https://github.com/microsoft/QuantumKatas/tree/master/QEC_BitFlipCode)|Explore quantum error correction with the simplest of the quantum error-correction (QEC) codes - the three-qubit bit-flip code.|

> |[Phase estimation](https://github.com/microsoft/QuantumKatas/blob/master/PhaseEstimation)|Phase estimation algorithms are some of the most fundamental building blocks of quantum computing. Learn about phase estimation with these exercises that cover quantum phase estimation, iterative phase estimation, and how to prepare and run phase estimation routines in Q#.|

Reviewer: I wouldn't emphasize iterative PE here, since it's not really well-covered...
```suggestion
|[Phase estimation](https://github.com/microsoft/QuantumKatas/blob/master/PhaseEstimation)|Phase estimation algorithms are some of the most fundamental building blocks of quantum computing. Learn about phase estimation with these exercises that cover quantum phase estimation and how to prepare and run phase estimation routines in Q#.|
```
